1. Explain the features of python.
● Open Source : Code that is intended to be publicly accessible is known as open source software; 
  anybody can view, alter, and distribute the code as they see appropriate.
● Free :Python is free for anyone to use and distribute (commercially or non-commercially), 
  so any individual or company can use it without paying license fees.
● Platform Independent : It means that if we write a program in Python, it can run on a variety of platforms, 
  for instance, Windows, Mac, Linux, etc. We do not have to write separate Python code for different platforms.
● Portable : The Python programming language is also portable. For instance, 
  if we already have Python code written for Windows and want to execute it on Linux, Unix, or Mac, 
  we can do so without making any changes to the code.
● Simple and easy to learn: Python is incredibly simple to learn and use, and because indentation 
  is used in Python code instead of curly braces, it is very simple to read.
● Dynamically Typed : In Python, we do not need to declare the data types of the variables which we define. 
  It is the job of the Python interpreter to determine the data types of the variables at runtime based 
  on the types of the parts of the expression.
● Interpreted Language: Python is an interpreted language (a programming language that is often interpreted 
  rather than compiled into machine instructions). It is one in which the instructions are read and executed 
  by another programme known as the interpreter rather than directly by the target computer) 
  and an IDLE (Interactive Development Environment) is provided alongside Python. 
  It is nothing more than a REPL (Read Evaluate Print Loop) interpreter.
● Extensible and Embeddable : Python is a language that can be embedded. We can translate some Python code into C 
  or C++ and then compile that code using C or C++. Python is also extendable. It means that we can also extend
  our Python code in a variety of other languages, such as C++.
● Broad Standard Library:  You can build large applications with Python, even though it doesn’t check programs 
  before they run. In technical terms, Python doesn’t have compile-time checking. Python supports large programs 
  by connecting multiple modules together and bundling them into packages. Each module can be built and tested 
  separately. 
● Supports both function oriented concept and object oriented concept.
● Python includes support for testing and error-checking both of individual modules and of whole programs.


1. Define Variable .
   Variable is a container to store values.They are reference to a memory location which is used to store value. 
   They are also called Identifiers.


2. Difference between snake_case and camelCase.
   Camel case is usually for variables, properties, attributes, methods, and functions.(ex: camelCase)  
   Snake case is commonly used in scripting languages like Python and as a constant in other C-styled languages.
   (ex: snake_case) 

 
3. What is meant by integer division.
   This operator will divide the first argument by the second and round the result down to the nearest whole number, 
   making it equivalent to the math. using the // operator.



4. Write program to exchange the values of two numbers with and without using temporary variables.

5. Write a program to accept a string value via user input and display the same .

6. Write a program to find the average marks for three subjects.


1) What is the difference between high-level and low-level programming language.


2) Describe python programming language
   Python is a General Purpose, interpreted and High Level Language. It is a simple and easy to learn and powerful programming languague.
   Some of the domains  are listed below:
   ● Data Science
   Python is very important for Data Science as it provides important libraries such as Numpy,pandas and 
   Matplotlib for data analysis and Visualization.
   ● Desktop Applications
   Python is used to develop desktop applications with its PyQt and Tkinter Libraries.
   Web Application
   Web applications can be developed by using famous libraries like Django and flask framework.
   ● Mobile Application
   Python is also used to develop mobile applications by using famous libraries like Kivy and BeeWare.
   ● Machine learning and Artificial Intelligence
   With strong libraries like TensorFlow, Keras and Pytorch python is well suited for Developing Machine learning 
   and Artificial Intelligence applications.
   ● Image Processing
   Python provides support in the field of Image processing with its libraries such as OpenCV and Scikit-Image.
   ● Speech Recognition
   Speech recognition applications can be developed by using libraries such as SpeechRecognition and PyAudio 
   provided by Python.


3) What is a platform independent programming language
   It means that if we write a program in Python, it can run on a variety of platforms, for instance, 
   Windows, Mac, Linux, etc. We do not have to write separate Python code for different platforms.


1.Write a command to check version of python on command prompt
  Check the Python version on the command line: --version , -V , -VV. 
  Execute the python or python3 command with the --version or -V option in the command prompt ( cmd ) on Windows 
  or the terminal on Mac and Linux.